To compiler using command prompt :

Step 1 - javac <filename> 
step 2 - filename.class //it is our bytecode & is created directly .We do not not have to write this command.
step 3 - java <filename>  //to execute.


Note : The extensoin of byte code file is - .class



What is role of "public static void main (String [] args)" in Java programming?


Every language has its function which tells the compiler from where the compiler has to 
start executing its program like in C programming language there is int main() function,
 same as C programming language we have public static void main (String [] args) in JAVA.

public- It is an Access modifier, which specifies from where and who can access the method.
 Making the main() method public makes it globally available. It is made public so that JVM can
  invoke it from outside the class as it is not present in the current class. public keyword is
   accessible anywhere within any java project.

Static-It is a keyword which is when associated with a method, makes it a class related method. 
The main() method is static so that JVM can invoke it without instantiating the class. This also
 saves the unnecessary wastage of memory which would have been used by the object declared only
  for calling the main() method by the JVM.

void- Void is a keyword which ensures that the function is not returning anything ,it’s return 
type is void As soon as the main() method terminates, the java program terminates too. 
Hence, it doesn’t make any sense to return from main() method as JVM can’t do anything with 
the return value of it.

main- main is a name is java which tells the compiler that you have to start from here, in 
others words we can say starting point f execution of program.

String[] args- Looking the whole statement its looks like this a function which take some
 input in the parenthesis of main that we called as String[] args It stores Java command 
 line arguments and is an array of type java.lang.String class. Here, the name of 
 the String array is args but it is not fixed and user can use any name in place of it




 Why is String args [] compulsory in main method in Java?

When you run a Java program from a command line, you are allowed to pass data 
into that program as 'comnand line arguments'.

Your Java program will run from a main method, and the arguments you typed on the
 command line will appear to the Java program as Strings in that array.





 What is an object and why do we create an object in java?


Trying a Simple way to explain about the Object created for a Class.

Class (consider as A) is like a closed Room with many things inside.
You are an outsider (from Class B), wanting to access something(METHODS) from the class A.
You wont be able to directly access anything in a room(A) as there is no way to go inside .
 What you need is a way to go inside the room to access the compents (Methods).
So we have to create a door (OBJECT) to that room.
The created Door (OBJECT) is especially for you. Only you can use the door (OBJECT). 
No person from other Room (CLASS) can access through the Door (OBJECT) created by you.
 He has to create his own Door (OBJECT).
If you are already inside the room A, you dont need a door to access the things inside
 the room where you are in. i.e., To access a Method in a class from whithin the class itself, 
 you dont have to create a object(door). You can directly access the things (METHODS) by its name.

P.S: There are ways to create only one object to a class (SINGLETON). 
You can get to know about that while studying in detail.




Why do Java programs start from only main (string args[]) method?


Originally Answered: Why do java program starts from only main (String args[]) method?
Ok, lets look at this the other way around. Lets take an example.

There is a house and you want to enter to visit your friend. What would you do? 
You will look for the entrance gate to enter the house. Also, you are carrying a gift
 for your friend.
In similar way, a program is like a house. When the program is needed to be executed,
 the system looks for the main entrance i.e. the main method public static void main(String[] args) 
 to enter into the program and execute it. The String[] args acts as a container which 
 can contain data (i.e. the gift item) which is to be delivered to the program (i.e house) 
 and program can take this data for further use




 What exactly is the use of String [] args in Java?


It simply means that you can pass the run-time command line arguments of type String to 
the main method in Java, args contains the supplied command-line arguments as an array of 
String objects.





Why is the main method in Java important?


Main Method is very important to start our code Execution , when we start writing code then we have write first line “public static void main (String Args[])” , This is only because java compiler don’t Understand any thing excluding Main method and as soon as compiler get this method they it start execution in normal flow , Directly say , if you will not write this main method in your code then your code will never be compiled and throws Exception Like ,

Error: Main method not found in class Simple, please define the main method as:
public static void main(String[] args)

So you have to define main method in your code .

Its not Enough to write only main method in your code , you have to understand the syntax and terms which should be in your main method .

“public static void main (String Args[])”

public :- public is modifier which used here to provide accessibility to the method so that it can be access any where from you system .

static :- static is keyword which is very important to write in your code in main method , The main() method Java are static because they can then be invoked by the run time engine without having to instantiate an instance of the parent class.

void :- void is return type it is used because if there is another return type like int , float etc then is returned value really worth it for compiler , never , the returned value does’t use by compiler that’s why main method return type is void .

main:- main is the predefined name of the method which is fixed .

String args[] :- This is String Array which is used to store the value which is provide command line by user.

following are syntax which is normally used when we write java code ,

Valid java main method syntax :-

public static void main(String[] args)
public static void main(String []args)
public static void main(String args[])
public static void main(String... args)
static public void main(String[] args)
public static final void main(String[] args)
final public static void main(String[] args)
final strictfp public static void main(String[] args)




What is args in (String [] args)? What does args stand for?

arguments to the method. This method must be given an array of Strings, 
and the array will be called 'args .